Energy consumption is one of the primary contributors to evaluate the environmental performance of buildings.
As the building industry becomes more environmentally conscientious, the direction towards energy efficiency by minimizing the impact of non-renewable resources such as natural gas is vital to improve living conditions of the community.
Subsequently, federal departments have accepted responsibility to investigate the greater impact of cities on their local environment, as well as directing research towards more efficient energy use.
This analysis addresses how geographical, administrative, and architectural factors affect the overall energy consumption of the Washington D.C area, as well as how these factors can lead to an overall healthier and sustainable environment.

From 2013 to 2017, the Department of Energy and Environment collected data regarding the energy usage of buildings in the District of Columbia that exceeded 50,000 square feet in floor area.
The recordings examine DC's energy efficiency trends for that specific time frame, which informs the development of this analysis.
This evidence leads to conducting research on the driving aspects of a community's energy consumption and how they can be better managed.
A survey of different building specifications consisting of building types, postal codes, and utility usage types (water, electricity, etc.) were independently compared to one another and affiliated with their rates of Energy Usage Intensity (EUI).
This combination sets a holistic narrative about efforts made to combat excessive energy consumption and diminish carbon emission rates.

This analysis points to buildings dedicated for institutional or commercial practices as among the highest EUI spending types, except multifamily housing communities.
The analysis raises concerns about whether local communities are not as intrusive as presumed to be, while emphasizing the socioeconomic value of the community and the importance of reducing greenhouse gas production.
As is investigated, the overall prediction of energy consumption can be reinforced by this research and can be built upon by other studies conducted in other metropolises in the U.S.
